prior to very recently i was not
qualified to create the video i am
currently creating on how to give a
wedding thank you speech as the bride or
the groom
however this year in june 2022
my fiance and i became husband and wife
we had our wedding and i had to go
through the process of writing a thank
you speech and delivering it alongside
my bride to all of our guests who were
there to celebrate our wedding with us
now i feel that i'm somewhat qualified
to deliver this youtube video at least
giving you my experience my feedback on
the process i took in creating a wedding
thank you speech to acknowledge some of
our key guests who had either traveled
the long way or contributed to the
wedding so i hope this video if you were
a bride or a groom your wedding is
coming up you are writing this very
speech right now stay tuned till the end
because i think it will be helpful for
you i'll give all of the tips and all of
the experiences i had to help you out
and by the way if this is your first
time landing on my youtube channel i
would love it if you subscribed hit
notifications my goal is to put out a
lot of content whether it's related to
wedding speeches public speaking in
general or even toastmasters i produce a
lot of content explaining how you can be
a better communicator a better public
speaker so the thank you speech at a
wedding is typically the last one
delivered by the bride and the groom
usually there's toasts from the best man
or the maid of honor sometimes a few
other speeches from groomsmen or
bridesmaids and often there's a parent
speech and in the end of the evening
it's often the thank you speech at least
in the experience of the weddings that
i've been to in canada here that is
typically the format i want to be real
with one thing very
right off the hop and that is as a bride
and a groom you have a lot of things
going on that day your mind is full you
have so many guests in town that you
want to talk to you want to experience
the day with you're probably getting
taken away to do photos which takes up a
big chunk of the day you've got to think
about your wedding vows maybe you have a
first dance that you've practiced there
is so much going through your mind and
often the thank you speech it might not
be at the top of the list of the thing
that you are prepared for because you
are truly planning an entire event for
your special day so it's understandable
that
you don't have a lot of time i'm
creating this video with the assumption
that you don't have a ton of time to put
into practicing this thank you speech
over and over and over with that said my
first tip and it actually goes against
some of the other advice i give for
other speeches but my tip for this one
is to write it down
write down your wedding speech maybe not
verbatim but at least write down all of
the individuals specifically that you're
hoping to thank and maybe a line or two
in each paragraph of things that you
really want to say to that person or
that you don't want to forget to mention
a wedding thank you speech is a bit
different than other speeches where
maybe you're telling stories or
it's mostly a humorous speech wedding
thank you speeches are all about
acknowledging those people who have gone
above and beyond to make your special
day what it was and you want to ensure
that you give them that that public
appreciation so that they can feel the
love and that you can truly express to
them how much you appreciate those
individuals now when i say write down
your speech i don't suggest that you
have to stand there in front of the
crowd and read verbatim everything that
you've written down on that piece of
paper i still think it's great if you
can set that paper to the side and only
briefly reference it from time to time
but the reason it's important to write
it down is because with so much going on
in that day so much on your mind
it's really important to acknowledge all
of those people who have made an impact
on your big day that way you have that
crutch you have that security blanket of
if you freeze up if you forget because
you're so overwhelmed on your wedding
day you can refer to your piece of paper
and rate there you have written down in
point form or however you take your
notes
all of the individuals that you want to
acknowledge the second tip i have is to
decide on the dynamic you and your
partner however you want to deliver that
speech that is up to you perhaps one of
you is the more confident public speaker
and would rather do the lion's share of
the speech that's totally fine or maybe
it's the other individual or maybe you
want to alternate back and forth that
can work as well but decide early on
what that dynamic how much of the speech
each of you is going to say
and how you're going to break that down
is it going to alternate people who
you're thinking however you think it
should work it's completely up to you
with that said even if one of you is the
more confident public speaker i still
encourage that other individual even if
it's hard for him or her
still speak up and say
a few words
maybe it's
that person's own parents that they want
to thank it should probably come from
that person or maybe it's the wedding
party members on his or her side that he
or she wants to acknowledge
in that case absolutely
make sure that you're involving both of
you to some degree some couples go up
there one person grabs the mic and says
the whole thing that's okay if you go
with that dynamic and it can still be
fine but i really encourage that other
person who's maybe a little more shy
still say a few words even if it's only
twice or three times throughout the
speech and acknowledge
those individuals who are really close
or important to you my third tip is that
it can still be creative a wedding thank
you speech is pretty formulaic in the
sense of your purpose really is to
acknowledge all of these different
people with that said you can still add
creativity to your thank you speech
without
overdoing it though because this is a
little bit different than a speech you
deliver as such as a toast to a bride or
a groom because again you want to really
focus on the individuals who you're
thanking but with that said there's a
couple things you can do one is to
inject humor and i encourage that
because at any public speaking
opportunity the quicker that you can get
the audience to laugh it's going to
relax them and it's going to relax you
as the public speaker and those are the
most entertaining speeches as well but
don't turn your speech into a big joke
fest or anything like that because again
this is about thanking the important
individuals who contributed to your
wedding but by adding in a couple of
lines here and there that get the
audience chuckling that you know will
work especially early in the speech
that's a nice little inclusion that is
going to add to your speech and it's
going to make it more memorable another
way you can make your speech creative is
by coming full circle so maybe there's
something you reference early on and
then you deliver all of your thank yous
throughout the speech and then at the
end you reference again that early thing
that you mentioned right at the top of
the speech
and you mention it at the end
and it just feels like it came together
really nicely so there's all of these
different elements that you can inject
with your wedding speech but remember
you don't want to overdo it on the
creativity side
don't forget the purpose of a wedding
speech a thank you
a wedding thank you speech it is to
thank the important individuals and
there's probably a lot of people that
you want to thank so you want to
ensure that that speech isn't too long
that you've added all of these stories
and creativity
no remember your purpose but still
inject a little bit of creativity to
make that a unique and memorable speech
a final tip i have for the bride groom
wedding thank you speech
is to
still as much as possible
practice
now i started this video by talking
about how little time you probably have
in planning a wedding to practice your
wedding thank you speech there's so many
things on your mind but whatever time
you do have still dedicate that to
practicing because the more you practice
even by the way this might sound weird
but my favorite place to practice public
speaking is in the shower or driving on
my way to work those are the places
where i've got a couple minutes to
myself and i can go through the speech
in my head i can practice it and by
doing that when you have little moments
of time and running through the speech
in your head you'll be surprised how
easy it will become on the day of
especially compared to if you just try
to wing it and go off the top that is
much more difficult but if you can go
through this a few times in your head or
even speaking out loud and practicing
that combination of the practice plus
having the speech written out off to the
side you're going to be absolutely fine
and then the wedding thank you speech is
just one of many things you're focused
on that day
and you'll be prepared for all of these
different things if you were a bride or
a groom who is preparing for your
wedding and your wedding thank you
speech watching this video thank you so
much for taking the time to watch it and
congratulations on getting married i
know for my wife and i it was one of our
best days ever it was so much fun it's
going to be for you as well
if maybe you're not getting married
maybe you hope to get married one day
and you're already thinking about your
wedding thank you speech hey you do you
whatever your situation consider
subscribing to my channel i would really
appreciate it leave a comment below if
this video helped you out otherwise
check out some of the other videos i've
done on my youtube channel and
congratulations once again